---
title: Project Breakdown
description:
  Learn about the anatomy of a Nargo project, including the purpose of the Prover TOML
  file, and how to prove and verify your program.
keywords:
  [Nargo, Nargo project, Prover.toml, proof verification, private asset transfer]
sidebar_position: 2 
---

This section breaks down our hello world program from the previous section.

## Anatomy of a Nargo Project

Upon creating a new project with `nargo new` and building the in/output files with `nargo check`
commands, you would get a minimal Nargo project of the following structure:

    - src
    - Prover.toml
    - Nargo.toml

The source directory _src_ holds the source code for your Noir program. By default only a _main.nr_
file will be generated within it.

### Prover.toml

_Prover.toml_ is used for specifying the input values for executing and proving the program. You can specify `toml` files with different names by using the `--prover-name` or `-p` flags, see the [Prover](#provertoml) section below. Optionally you may specify expected output values for prove-time checking as well.

### Nargo.toml

_Nargo.toml_ contains the environmental options of your project. It contains a "package" section and a "dependencies" section.

Example Nargo.toml:

```toml
[package]
name = "noir_starter"
type = "bin"
authors = ["Alice"]
compiler_version = "0.9.0"
description = "Getting started with Noir"
entry = "circuit/main.nr"
license = "MIT"

[dependencies]
ecrecover = {tag = "v0.9.0", git = "https://github.com/colinnielsen/ecrecover-noir.git"}
```

Nargo.toml for a [workspace](../../noir/modules_packages_crates/workspaces.md) will look a bit different. For example:

```toml
[workspace]
members = ["crates/a", "crates/b"]
default-member = "crates/a"
```

#### Package section

The package section defines a number of fields including:

- `name` (**required**) - the name of the package
- `type` (**required**) - can be "bin", "lib", or "contract" to specify whether its a binary, library or Aztec contract
- `authors` (optional) - authors of the project
- `compiler_version` - specifies the version of the compiler to use. This is enforced by the compiler and follow's [Rust's versioning](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-version-field), so a `compiler_version = 0.18.0` will enforce Nargo version 0.18.0, `compiler_version = ^0.18.0` will enforce anything above 0.18.0 but below 0.19.0, etc. For more information, see how [Rust handles these operators](https://docs.rs/semver/latest/semver/enum.Op.html)
- `description` (optional)
- `entry` (optional) - a relative filepath to use as the entry point into your package (overrides the default of `src/lib.nr` or `src/main.nr`)
- `backend` (optional)
- `license` (optional)
- `expression_width` (optional) - Sets the default backend expression width. This field will override the default backend expression width specified by the Noir compiler (currently set to width 4). 

#### Dependencies section

This is where you will specify any dependencies for your project. See the [Dependencies page](../../noir/modules_packages_crates/dependencies.md) for more info.

`./proofs/` and `./contract/` directories will not be immediately visible until you create a proof or
verifier contract respectively.

### main.nr

The _main.nr_ file contains a `main` method, this method is the entry point into your Noir program.

In our sample program, _main.nr_ looks like this:

```rust
fn main(x : Field, y : Field) {
    assert(x != y);
}
```

The parameters `x` and `y` can be seen as the API for the program and must be supplied by the prover. Since neither `x` nor `y` is marked as public, the verifier does not supply any inputs, when verifying the proof.

The prover supplies the values for `x` and `y` in the _Prover.toml_ file.

As for the program body, `assert` ensures that the condition to be satisfied (e.g. `x != y`) is constrained by the proof of the execution of said program (i.e. if the condition was not met, the verifier would reject the proof as an invalid proof).

### Prover.toml

The _Prover.toml_ file is a file which the prover uses to supply the inputs to the Noir program (both private and public).

In our hello world program the _Prover.toml_ file looks like this:

```toml
x = "1"
y = "2"
```

When the command `nargo execute` is executed, nargo will execute the Noir program using the inputs specified in `Prover.toml`, aborting if it finds that these do not satisfy the constraints defined by `main`. In this example, `x` and `y` must satisfy the inequality constraint `assert(x != y)`.

If an output name is specified such as `nargo execute foo`, the witness generated by this execution will be written to `./target/foo.gz`. This can then be used to generate a proof of the execution.

#### Arrays of Structs

The following code shows how to pass an array of structs to a Noir program to generate a proof.

```rust
// main.nr
struct Foo {
    bar: Field,
    baz: Field,
}

fn main(foos: [Foo; 3]) -> pub Field {
    foos[2].bar + foos[2].baz
}
```

Prover.toml:

```toml
[[foos]] # foos[0]
bar = 0
baz = 0

[[foos]] # foos[1]
bar = 0
baz = 0

[[foos]] # foos[2]
bar = 1
baz = 2
```

#### Custom toml files

You can specify a `toml` file with a different name to use for execution by using the `--prover-name` or `-p` flags.

This command looks for proof inputs in the default **Prover.toml** and generates the witness and saves it at `./target/foo.gz`:

```bash
nargo execute foo
```

This command looks for proof inputs in the custom **OtherProver.toml** and generates the witness and saves it at `./target/bar.gz`:

```bash
nargo execute -p OtherProver bar
```

Now that you understand the concepts, you'll probably want some editor feedback while you are writing more complex code.
