README.md, before:

# The Noir Programming Language

Noir is a Domain Specific Language for SNARK proving systems. It has been designed to use any ACIR compatible proving system.

**This implementation is in early development. It has not been reviewed or audited. It is not suitable to be used in production. Expect bugs!**

## Quick Start

Read the installation section [here](https://noir-lang.github.io/book/getting_started/install.html)

Once you have read through the documentation, you can also run the examples located in the `examples` folder.

## Current Features

Backends:

 - Barretenberg via FFI

Compiler:

 - Module System
 - For expressions
 - Arrays
 - Bit Operations, except for OR
 - Binary operations (<, <=, >, >=, +, -, *, /) [See documentation for an extensive list]
 - Unsigned integers

ACIR Supported OPCODES:

 - Sha256
 - Blake2s
 - Schnorr signature verification
 - MerkleMembership
 - Pedersen
 - HashToField

## Future Work

The current focus is to gather as much feedback as possible while in the alpha phase. The main focusses of Noir are _safety_ and _developer experience_. If you find a feature that does not seem to be inline with these goals, please open an issue!

Concretely the following items are on the road map:

- If statements
- OR operator
- General code sanitisation and documentation
- Prover and Verifier Key logic. (Prover and Verifier preprocess per compile)
- Structures
- Visibility modifiers
- Signed integers
- Backend integration: (Marlin, Bulletproofs)
- Recursion

## License

Noir is free and open source. It is distributed under a dual license. (MIT/APACHE)

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in this crate by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

## Barretenberg License

Barretenberg is currently the only backend that Noir has integrated. It is licensed under GPL V2.0.

Commit message:

Use WASM Backend as Default

README.md, after:

# The Noir Programming Language

Noir is a Domain Specific Language for SNARK proving systems. It has been designed to use any ACIR compatible proving system.

**This implementation is in early development. It has not been reviewed or audited. It is not suitable to be used in production. Expect bugs!**

## Quick Start

Read the installation section [here](https://noir-lang.github.io/book/getting_started/install.html)

Once you have read through the documentation, you can also run the examples located in the `examples` folder.

## Current Features

Backends:

- Barretenberg via FFI

Compiler:

- Module System
- For expressions
- Arrays
- Bit Operations, except for OR
- Binary operations (<, <=, >, >=, +, -, \*, /) [See documentation for an extensive list]
- Unsigned integers

ACIR Supported OPCODES:

- Sha256
- Blake2s
- Schnorr signature verification
- MerkleMembership
- Pedersen
- HashToField

## Future Work

The current focus is to gather as much feedback as possible while in the alpha phase. The main focusses of Noir are _safety_ and _developer experience_. If you find a feature that does not seem to be inline with these goals, please open an issue!

Concretely the following items are on the road map:

- If statements
- OR operator
- General code sanitisation and documentation
- Prover and Verifier Key logic. (Prover and Verifier preprocess per compile)
- Structures
- Visibility modifiers
- Signed integers
- Backend integration: (Marlin, Bulletproofs)
- Recursion

## Compile `aztec_backend` from Source (Optional)

By default, Noir utilizes the C++ backend's wasm executable instead of compiling from source.

If you prefer compiling the backend from source instead, go into [nargo/Cargo.toml](crates/nargo/Cargo.toml)'s `aztec_backend` and delete `, default-features = false, features = ["wasm-base",]`. The line should then look like:

```
aztec_backend = { optional = true, git = "https://github.com/noir-lang/aztec_backend", rev = "d91c69f2137777cec37f692f98d075ae10e7a584" }
```

## License

Noir is free and open source. It is distributed under a dual license. (MIT/APACHE)

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in this crate by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

## Barretenberg License

Barretenberg is currently the only backend that Noir has integrated. It is licensed under GPL V2.0.
