circuits/cpp/barretenberg/README.md, before:

### Barretenberg, an optimized elliptic curve library for the bn128 curve, and PLONK SNARK prover

**this code is highly experimental, use at your own risk!**

The structured reference string contains monomials up to x^{2^20}. This SRS was generated locally and is for testing and development purposes only!

### Getting started

```
git clone https://github.com/AztecProtocol/barretenberg

mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make -j$(nproc) [optional target name]
```

### Tests

Each module has its own tests. To run, for example `ecc` tests:

```
./src/ecc/ecc_tests
```

Running the entire suite of tests using `ctest`:

```
make test
```

To compile without tests and benchmarks, use `cmake .. -DTESTING=OFF -DBENCHMARKS=OFF`

To select a test, run `<path_to_module_tests> --gtest_filter=<test_filter>*`

### Debug build

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE="Debug" ..
make -j$(nproc)
```

### Build without x64 assembly:

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DDISABLE_ASM=ON ..
make -j$(nproc)
```

### WASM build

We need to install `wasi-sdk` runtime to build the WASM version. We then hook a part of the runtime so we can build
the tests, which use `gtest`.

#### OS X
You may need to install `gsed` on OS X (`brew install gnu-sed`).

```
cd ./src
curl -s -L https://github.com/CraneStation/wasi-sdk/releases/download/wasi-sdk-8/wasi-sdk-8.0-macos.tar.gz | tar zxfv -
gsed -e '213i#include "../../../../wasi/stdlib-hook.h"' -i ./wasi-sdk-8.0/share/wasi-sysroot/include/stdlib.h
```

#### Linux

```
cd ./src
curl -s -L https://github.com/CraneStation/wasi-sdk/releases/download/wasi-sdk-8/wasi-sdk-8.0-linux.tar.gz | tar zxfv -
sed -e '213i#include "../../../../wasi/stdlib-hook.h"' -i ./wasi-sdk-8.0/share/wasi-sysroot/include/stdlib.h
```

If you want to be able to run the tests, you'll need to install `wasmtime`.

```
curl https://wasmtime.dev/install.sh -sSf | bash
```

Finally, to build.

```
mkdir build-wasm && cd build-wasm
cmake -DWASM=ON ..
make -j$(nproc) barretenberg.wasm
```

The resulting binary will be at `./src/aztec/barretenberg.wasm` and can be copied to `barretenberg.js` for use in node and the browser.

Wasm build does not currently support `ctest` meaning you must run each modules tests individually.

### Modules

The following is the tree of module targets. e.g. to build `keccak` just `make keccack` (ignore the path).

```
crypto
  |_keccak
    blake2s
    pedersen
    sha256
    schnorr
ecc
noir
  |_noir_cli
    noir
numeric
plonk
  |_composer
    pippenger_bench
    proof_system
    reference_string
    transcript
polynomials
rollup
srs
stdlib
  encryption
    |_schnorr
  merkle_tree
  hash
    |_keccak
      blake2s
      pedersen
      sha256
  primitives
    |_stdlib_bit_array
      stdlib_bool
      stdlib_byte_array
      stdlib_field
      stdlib_uint
```

Their test targets are at `<module_name>_tests`.

Commit message:

Benchmarks inlined with modules plus build mods.

circuits/cpp/barretenberg/README.md, after:

### Barretenberg, an optimized elliptic curve library for the bn128 curve, and PLONK SNARK prover

**this code is highly experimental, use at your own risk!**

The structured reference string contains monomials up to x^{2^20}. This SRS was generated locally and is for testing and development purposes only!

### Getting started

```
git clone https://github.com/AztecProtocol/barretenberg
cd barretenberg/barretenberg
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make [optional target name]
```

### Parallelise the build

Add the number of jobs you want to your `make` command. e.g. `make -j16`.

### Tests

Each module has its own tests. To build and run, for example `ecc` tests:

```
make ecc_tests
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_tests
```

Running the entire suite of tests using `ctest`:

```
make test
```

To compile without tests and benchmarks, use `cmake .. -DTESTING=OFF -DBENCHMARKS=OFF`

To select a test, run `<path_to_module_tests> --gtest_filter=<test_filter>*`

### Benchmarks

Some modules have benchmarks. The build targets are named `<module_name>_bench`. To build and run, for example `ecc` benchmarks.

```
make ecc_bench
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_bench
```

A shorthand for the above is:

```
make run_ecc_bench
```

### Debug build

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE="Debug" ..
make
```

### Build without x64 assembly:

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DDISABLE_ASM=ON ..
make
```

### WASM build

We need to install `wasi-sdk` runtime to build the WASM version. We then hook a part of the runtime so we can build
the tests, which use `gtest`.

#### OS X
You may need to install `gsed` on OS X (`brew install gnu-sed`).

```
cd ./src
curl -s -L https://github.com/CraneStation/wasi-sdk/releases/download/wasi-sdk-8/wasi-sdk-8.0-macos.tar.gz | tar zxfv -
gsed -e '213i#include "../../../../wasi/stdlib-hook.h"' -i ./wasi-sdk-8.0/share/wasi-sysroot/include/stdlib.h
```

#### Linux

```
cd ./src
curl -s -L https://github.com/CraneStation/wasi-sdk/releases/download/wasi-sdk-8/wasi-sdk-8.0-linux.tar.gz | tar zxfv -
sed -e '213i#include "../../../../wasi/stdlib-hook.h"' -i ./wasi-sdk-8.0/share/wasi-sysroot/include/stdlib.h
```

If you want to be able to run the tests, you'll need to install `wasmtime`.

```
curl https://wasmtime.dev/install.sh -sSf | bash
```

Finally, to build.

```
mkdir build-wasm && cd build-wasm
cmake -DWASM=ON ..
make -j$(nproc) barretenberg.wasm
```

The resulting binary will be at `./src/aztec/barretenberg.wasm` and can be copied to `barretenberg.js` for use in node and the browser.

Wasm build does not currently support `ctest` meaning you must run each modules tests individually.

### Modules

The following is the tree of module targets. e.g. to build `keccak` just `make keccack` (ignore the path).

```
crypto
  |_keccak
    blake2s
    pedersen
    sha256
    schnorr
ecc
noir
  |_noir_cli
    noir
numeric
plonk
  |_composer
    pippenger_bench
    proof_system
    reference_string
    transcript
polynomials
rollup
srs
stdlib
  encryption
    |_schnorr
  merkle_tree
  hash
    |_keccak
      blake2s
      pedersen
      sha256
  primitives
    |_stdlib_bit_array
      stdlib_bool
      stdlib_byte_array
      stdlib_field
      stdlib_uint
```

Their test targets are at `<module_name>_tests`.
